---
layout: collection
title: "LFMP 2020 Projects"
collection: lfmp2020
permalink: /lfmp2020/
author_profile: false
sidebar:
    nav: "lfmp20"
---
<div>

<p>
<a href="https://people.communitybridge.org/" title="lfmp:linux-foundation-mentorship-programme-2020">Main Linux Foundation Mentorship Programme page: How to apply, deadlines, other workgroups, ...</a>
</p>

</div>

<h2>Contact</h2>
<div>

<p>
<strong>Important:</strong> We protect the e-mail addresses of our mentors and mailing lists against spam bots. Please replace all occurrences of “ at ” and “ dot ” by “@” and “.” resp.
</p>

<p>
Mailing list: <a href="http://lists.linux-foundation.org/mailman/listinfo/printing-architecture" title="http://lists.linux-foundation.org/mailman/listinfo/printing-architecture"  rel="nofollow">printing-architecture at lists dot linux-foundation dot org</a>
</p>

<p>
<abbr title="Internet Relay Chat">IRC</abbr>: #openprinting on Freenode
</p>

<p>
<a href="https://github.com/OpenPrinting" title="https://github.com/OpenPrinting"  rel="nofollow">OpenPrinting GitHub</a>
</p>

<p>
Code License: See project descriptions
</p>

</div>

<h2>Organization Administrators</h2>
<div>

<p>
The participation of the Linux Foundation in the Linux Foundation Mentorship Programme is organized by Till Kamppeter (till at linux dot com) and Aveek Basu (basu dot aveek at gmail dot com).
</p>

</div>

<p>
Please see the <a href="https://openprinting.github.io/OpenPrinting-News-November-2019/#future-work-of-openprinting-printerscanner-applications-and-ipp-system-service" class="urlextern" title="https://openprinting.github.io/OpenPrinting-News-November-2019/#future-work-of-openprinting-printerscanner-applications-and-ipp-system-service"  rel="nofollow">plans for our near future work</a> to get an overview of our development direction and architecture changes.
</p>

<h1>Project Ideas</h1>
<div>

<h2 id="wrapping-proprietary-printer-drivers-into-a-printer-application">Wrapping proprietary printer drivers into a Printer Application</h2>

<h3>Introduction</h3>
<p>
With sandboxed packaging, Linux distributions appear which do not use classic RPM or DEB packages any more, like the all-Snap Ubuntu Core. As a result CUPS will not work with classic PPD/filter-based printer drivers any more but requires all drivers being provided as Printer Applications. The student's task is to add this functionality to the Printer Application framework and create an easy way for users to install proprietary printer drivers into that chroot-equipped Printer Application.
</p>

<h3>Mentors</h3>
<p>
Till Kamppeter, Project Leader OpenPrinting (till at linux dot com), Aveek Basu, Project Manager (basu dot aveek at gmail dot com)
</p>

<h3>Desired Knowledge</h3>
<p>
C programming, C++ programming, Python Programming
</p>

<h3>Code License</h3>
<p>
<abbr title="GNU General Public License">GPL</abbr> 2+ or <abbr title="GNU Lesser General Public License">LGPL</abbr> 2+
</p>

<h2 id="support-for-ipp-fax-out">Support for IPP Fax Out</h2>

<h3>Introduction</h3>
<p>
IPP Fax out is a feature which is currently missing in Linux unlike Print and Scan. The student's task here is to make this functionality easily accessible for users of common desktop Linux distributions. Like printers, faxes should automatically appear on the system and get available in print dialogs and if one prints to a fax, fax-specific options should also appear in the print dialog and the user should be able to pick phone numbers also from contacts.
</p>

<h3>Mentors</h3>
<p>
Till Kamppeter, Project Leader OpenPrinting (till at linux dot com), Aveek Basu, Project Manager (basu dot aveek at gmail dot com)
</p>

<h3>Desired Knowledge</h3>
<p>
C++ programming, Qt, CUPS
</p>

<h3>License</h3>
<p>
Qt Contribution Agreement
</p>

<h2 id="ipp-scan-or-virtual-mf-device-server-scanner-application">IPP scan (or virtual MF device) server (Scanner Application)</h2>

<h3>Introduction</h3>
<p>
The Internet Printing Protocol (IPP) does not only support printing, but also scanning, as there are many printers which also have a scanner (multi-function (MF) devices). Both CUPS and the developer tool ippserver emulate IPP network printers but not IPP scanners and so they cannot serve as a server to share a local scanner.
</p>

<p>
This task is about adding the scan server functionality. If you have a scanner connected locally (and it scans via SANE), share it as an IPP scanner, advertising itself and accepting jobs using the IPP driverless scanning standard. In contrary to SANE-based network scanning clients with any operating system, also phones or IoT devices can scan on your shared scanner.
</p>

<p>
Also old hardware can be recycled to a modern MF device.
</p>

<p>
This server software will be a so-called Scanner Application, a sample implementation of the future form of scanner drivers, easily packageable in sandboxed, distribution-independent package formats like Snap.
</p>

<h3>Mentors</h3>
<p>
Alexander Pevzner, “airscan” SANE backend author (pzz at apevzner dot com), Michael Sweet, author of CUPS (msweet at msweet dot org), Till Kamppeter, Project Leader OpenPrinting (till at linux dot com), Aveek Basu, Project Manager (basu dot aveek at gmail dot com)
</p>

<h3>Desired Knowledge</h3>
<p>
C programming, C++ programming, Printing
</p>

<h3>Code License</h3>
<p>
Apache 2.0
</p>

</div>